Many different viruses can
cause influenza, or flu,
a contagious illness
of the respiratory tract.
Flu is spread through the air
when an infected person
coughs or sneezes,
or by touching things
infected with the virus
and then touching your mouth
or nose.
An infected person can spread
the virus before symptoms develop.
Typical symptoms of influenza:
Fever (100 to 103 degrees
Fahrenheit in adults;
may be higher in children)
Respiratory symptoms such as
Cough
Sore throat
Runny or stuffy nose
Muscle aches
Fatigue, sometimes extreme
Like all other viruses,
influenza cannot be controlled with
antibiotics like penicillin,
which kills bacteria.
Flu shots are reformulated each year
based on the type of virus
expected to be most common.
The vaccine offers some protection
once antibodies develop,
approximately 2 weeks after the shot.